# Api Node Express

### Description
Api Node Express is an API designed to connect to a React application, managing the communication with a MySQL database. This API is built with Node.js and Express, using ES6 modules.

### Features
- Connection to a MySQL database.
- Use of ES6 modules.
- CORS support.
- HTTP response compression.
- API documentation generated with Swagger.
- Handling environment variables with dotenv.
- Automatic testing with Jest and Supertest.

### Prerequisites
- Node.js** version 18.12.1 or higher.
- MySQL** version 5.7 or higher.

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository:**
   ```bash
   https://github.com/Oblekco/selecta-mdm-api.git
   ```

2. **Install the dependencies:**
   ````bash
   npm install
   ```

### Usage

1. **Start the server in development mode:**
   ````bash
   npm run dev
   ```
   The server will run at `http://localhost:3000`.

2. **Tests:**
   - Run the unit tests:
     ````bash
     npm test
     ```

### Documentation
The API documentation is automatically generated by Swagger. You can access it at:
```
http://localhost:3000/api-docs
```

### License
This project is licensed under the ISC license.

### Authors and Acknowledgments
- **Author:** [Ernesto S Jasson D.] 


### Additional Information
- **Dependencies:**
  - express`: Framework for Node.js.
  - mysql2`: MySQL client for Node.js.
  - dotenv`: Load environment variables from a `.env` file.
  - cors`: Middleware to enable CORS.
  - `compression`: Middleware to compress HTTP responses.
  - swagger-jsdoc` and `swagger-ui-express`: For API documentation generation and presentation.
  - Development dependencies
    - nodemon`: To automatically restart the server in development.
    - jest` and `supertest`: To perform automatic tests.
